Let's debug what happened and
then we're gonna fix the issue.
So if we go back to here,
let's open up the Chrome DevTools.
Okay, it'll make life easy
having these available.
So let's just refresh this and
I'm gonna hit the word Count.
And now let's look at
the response of Count, okay?
Cuz we can see we made the request.
The Headers look like we made
a post to localhost 42069/count.
So we have the right path, we did get
a nice response, which is this right here.
And if we look at the response HTML,
look at what we sent down.
We sent down the entire document.
Now, HTMX does a little bit of a trick.
If it receives an entire document,
it will only select out the body content.
It'll just kind of go, okay, obviously
you don't need these new headers,
you don't need all this stuff,
you just need the body content.
And so put the body content
into the requesting div,
which is obvious what happened if you open
up the element and you look at button,
you'll notice that button has the exact
same stuff that Count has right here.
So oopsie daisy, we just sent down,
and we just put it into the button.
So let's solve this,
it's actually a pretty simple solve.
We need to set a target.
So I'm gonna go like this, hx-target.
So if you don't know what target is,
target allows you to specify which
element should receive this
content after the AJAX request.
You can use a CSS selector or a series
of basic supported JavaScript selectors.
They're from,
you can read about them on MDN.
So you can do find, next, previous,
this, closest, or a CSS selector.
So I'm gonna go body.
There we go.
So just do whatever you're doing,
but attach it to the body.
So if you're using Air,
it will automatically recompile,
if you're not using Air,
you're gonna have to execute it yourself.
And now look at that it just says here and
it just counts.
But I mean, let's be real for
a second, is that great?
Do we want to always be responding and
replacing the body,
is that just how you
want to live your life?
I've seen head shakes all over the place,
absolutely.
So let's try to boil this down just
a touch more, how does that sound?
Let's make it a little bit better,
all right.
So I'm gonna jump back over to,
well, first off,
you'll notice also the HTML is correct.
So good thing to always double check.
All right, HTML is correct.
So let's go over here and
I'm gonna create a new block.
Block, we'll call this thing, count.
And I'm gonna go up here and
I'm just gonna take out the body and
I'm gonna just post it in here.
And then I'm gonna go back up and
I'm gonna go template count.
So there we go.
So I'm gonna just say, hey,
we want this small little bit.
I don't need to send
down the entire response,
I'm just gonna send down the things
that I think are worthy of change.
Feels pretty good, right?
I'll let everyone take a moment.
I'm sure you guys can program
these templates pretty easily.
They're fairly well understood.
I assume no one has a question
about what this means.
But in case you do render
template named count and
pass in the object that was passed to me.
Pretty straightforward, right?
All right, and this block says, I'm
block count, and I accept an object, and
I will now use that object right here.
Okay, everyone gets it pretty
straightforward, easy peasy lemon squeezy.
So now that we have that, let's jump
back over to our code and in our post,
instead of rendering the index,
let's render just that count.
So I'm gonna take the count,
I'm gonna replace index with count.
So there we go, fantastic.
So now if I were to run the server,
let's just refresh everything so
we can see it's all in
the Into its original state.
When I press this,
we still get this beautiful updating, but
it is the entire body not as cool, but
notice that the response now is
just this little bit, better?
Yes, best?
No, we can all agree this is not best,
it's just simply better.
So we should probably try to
make it even better, okay?
So I'm gonna go back here, let's just
make sure this is what I wanted to do.
Okay, yeah,
I didn't wanna do it here, all right.
So let's try rendering
something slightly different.
Let's change how we do this so
called HTML.
So what I'm gonna do here is I'm
gonna take the button out of here.
I'm gonna put it right here and then
I'm gonna add a digit div and call id,
how about this one count, right?
Fantastic, and instead of targeting
the body, let's target count.
So I'm just gonna use a CSS selector
again, to just simply say, hey,
when you press this make a post request,
but
I want you to target the div count for
the replacement.
And now my count template
literally looks like this.
It's nothing, right?
It's absolutely nothing.
But we're still gonna refer to it,
which means that when I go to the server,
I'm still only rendering that,
but when I go to the client,
I'm only gonna be replacing
this small amount of text.
So it is now as minimally
defined as possible.
Second thing I'd like to
highlight right here,
is the entirety of the behavior of this,
is within eyeshot of four lines of code.
So often they refer to this
as locality of behavior.
You can kind of understand what's
happening in its entirety by just looking
at a few lines of very declarative code.
So HTMX tends to be a very declarative
driver of your application.
Now, there are some imperative
procedural parts of HTMX, but for
the most part it's very declarative style.
So, now I'm gonna go back here, we'll now
press Count and we'll still increment when
we look at our Element, you'll notice that
it beautifully just counts right there.
We're no longer replacing body,
and when you look at the Network,
we're just replacing it with the string 5.
Now, we could even make it smaller.
We could even just make it so it only
transfers down just that singular byte.
But I hate to let you people down, if
you're transferring less than 1500 bytes,
it's all the same, right?
That's called the TCP packet.
That's the MTU,
the maximum transmission unit.
So, whether you're transferring one byte
or 1499, it's pretty much all the same.
So you're not making any
more W's at this point.
So now that we did that,
absolutely fantastic.
Hopefully everyone kind of
kept up with that idea.
You can kinda see how we started
targeting HTMX to make updates within
the application.